The Ferro Islands are also called the land of maybe.
The weather is very diverse and can rapidly change.
So when you begin in the ministry, the weather can be sunny and then 10 minutes later,
you find yourself in a massive rain shower and everything gets wet.
When there's another challenge, we have some severe winter storms,
so you have to be careful that your service partner or the car door doesn't blow away
while you're getting out of the car.
We make sure to wear clothes appropriate for the weather
and also to keep updated on the weather situation
and to see where in your territory the weather is most suitable and then adapt.
If the weather is nice, then we try to go from house to house.
And if the weather is bad, then you can go on calls where you can come inside,
meaning weather will invite you in or where the entrance is covered.
And you can plan your ministry so that if the weather gets bad,
you can take visits that you know will be at home that time of day.
When the weather is poor, it's good to adjust.
Maybe you can do some telephone witnessing or letter writing.
At a meeting for pioneers, an elder reminded us that when the weather is bad,
try not to think the weather is bad again, but instead, yay!
Now people are actually at home.
It is a good idea to have a plan for whom you'd like to visit and what you'd like to talk to them about.
Because then when it rains or the weather is an ideal,
you focus on your plan instead of thinking that now I've been out preaching for five hours in stormy weather.
I think Ecclesiastes 11-4 applies quite well to our territory.
That the one who watches the wind will not so see,
and the one who looks at the clouds will not reach.
If we have to wait for the perfect weather conditions to preach, then we wouldn't be out that often.
Something else that helps to endure bad weather is to think of the first publishers in the Faroe Islands.
They fought with sea sickness, bad weather, and they had to hike over the mountains to visit remote settlements.
They overcame these obstacles, and it motivates me to overcome the challenges I'm facing today.
I remember when we came to the Faroe Islands.
I looked out the window and thought,
is it even possible to go out in the ministry in this kind of weather?
And then we arrived at the Meeting for Field Service and the friends with children and strollers were there,
and we're positive and ready for field service.
It made me think that if they can do it, then I can too.
So we are a team of publishers and we have the weather as our challenge.
And especially when the weather is bad, we encourage one another.
We really like the song, the life of a pioneer.
It's an amazing song.
It says, in the work we endure with a sunshine or rain, because we loved Jehovah.
We really want people to get to know Jehovah. They need to know the truth.
When Jesus said that we should preach,
I think that he also would have put on a raincoat and gone out to preach the good news.
We experience how Jehovah blesses our efforts when we go in the ministry.
And you especially feel it when you persist in your efforts to preach when the weather isn't good.
It may be that one day you get a really nice conversation with a person about the Bible.
I also feel it gives me great joy.
Paul said that the one who soes bountifully will also reap bountifully.
So if you want to sow bountifully in the Faroe Islands,
you need to preach also when the weather is bad.
And we feel that we have reaped bountifully by nice return visits and Bible studies.
I feel it's worth all the effort because we see that people in the territory really appreciate what they are learning.
All we do in our ministry is motivated by love for Jehovah and the people in the territory.
And it won't be changed by bad weather.
It's an opportunity to show that our worship is wholehearted.
You don't just go in the ministry when everything is good and the sun is shining.
I think we have become more enduring and flexible in our ministry.